[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You are listening to the
Nail-Biting Mind Talk audio.
In a moment, the hypnosis will
begin, but before it does,
I'd just like to remind you that
the following audio contains
powerful hypnotic suggestions
that aim to help you reach
a deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
Do remember to listen
to this Mind Talk audio
several times to
get the most impact
from the hypnotherapy session.
And please don't
forget to write how
you feel after each session.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart from close
your eyes, relax and let go,
and enjoy those peaceful
feelings and all
the benefits that come with it.
I'd like you now
to make yourself
as comfortable as
possible, and listen
to the sound of my voice.
And as you do so, you may be
aware of other sounds going on
around you.
But you know that
they're not important.
They don't matter at all,
and you can dismiss them out
of your awareness, and
focus your mind entirely
on what I'm saying.
This is your time, and
you make the most of it.
No one needs or wants
anything from you at all.
And I'd like you to
take in a deep breath,
filling your lungs as much as
you can, and let it out slowly.
And again, take in a long, slow
breath, and when you're ready,
let it out slowly.
Now, you can allow your
breathing to return to normal--
gentle breaths in
and out, returning
to your normal gentle
breathing pace.
And I'd like you now
to imagine yourself
outside in your favorite
place in nature.
Maybe it's a peaceful
tropical beach,
or it could be a
beautiful garden.
And maybe you can
imagine lying back
on a boat, which is sailing
on a tranquil river.
It really doesn't matter
where you are, as long
as it feels good to you.
And it's a beautiful day.
The sky is a special
shade of blue, so clear.
And it's a warm summer's day.
There's a breeze gently
blowing over you,
and the temperature is
just how you like it.
And in the sky is
a dazzling sun,
so bright that you just
want to close your eyes
and feel the glowing healing
warmth of the sun on your body.
And surprisingly, you find
that you can direct that sun
over and around your body.
And as you realize
this, you begin
to direct the light from
the sun over your face.
You can feel the healing
warmth of the light
from the sun over your face,
just relaxing those muscles
around the eyes, around the
nose and mouth and your brow.
And as you do this, you find
that your facial muscles
begin to flatten
out as they relax,
and you let go completely.
And it's a beautiful day.
You move the light from the
sun into the throat area,
feeling the warmth of the light
from the sun in your throat,
relaxing all the muscles, just
letting go completely now.
And the warm sunlight now
moving into your shoulders
and across your
shoulders, making them
feel loose and limp
and comfortable,
as your shoulders sink into
the frame of your body.
And you feel so comfortable
now, so relaxed and at peace,
and you let nothing bother
or concern you at all.
And you direct the light from
the sun down your right arm,
from the shoulders to
the tips of your fingers.
Your right arm begins
to relax and let go,
and it's a beautiful feeling
to be here right now.
The warmth of the
light from the sun
penetrates the nerves and bones
and muscles of that right arm.
And it's such a beautiful day.
You move the sun
over to your left arm
and guide the light from the
sun down and up your left arm,
from the top of your
shoulders, all the way down
to the tips of your fingers.
You can feel the left arm
relaxing, becoming comfortably
heavy and totally relaxed.
Now, move that moonlight
across and into the chest area,
and relax the chest,
all the muscles there.
Now down to the stomach,
relaxing your tummy down
into your hips and your
thighs over to your right leg.
The light warms the muscles
as you relax your right leg.
Let it feel comfortable
and heavy now.
Now, move the light from
the sun down your right leg,
up and down from the top of the
hips to the tips of your toes,
as the right leg
relaxes, and you let go.
And it's such a beautiful
day, you now move the light
into your left leg.
You move it up and down the left
leg, from the top of the hips
to the tips of your
toes, and your left leg
relaxes, releasing tension,
letting go now completely.
Your whole body is now totally
and completely relaxed,
from the top of your
head all the way down
to the tips of your toes.
And as your body relaxes,
your mind also relaxes.
And I want you now to
notice that the sun is
setting, going down now,
deeper and deeper down.
And you're so deeply
relaxed, but still completely
alert and aware.
You resist the temptation
to fall asleep.
Your mind is thoroughly
relaxed, but you
stay focused on these words.
So now, I'd like you to
use your imagination,
and once again, you're in a
wonderful place in nature.
The trees are a
beautiful shade of green.
It's a stunning day, and the
sun is shining down on you.
There's a soft and
gentle breeze in the air,
making you feel pleasantly
relaxed and calm.
All around, you can see
trees and plants and an array
of the most beautiful
flowers you have ever seen,
so colorful and vibrant.
And you can smell the rich
aroma of these flowers,
making you feel so peaceful.
Nothing else matters right now.
You feel completely
at ease and so calm.
And in the distance, you
can hear the sound of water
flowing slowly and gently.
The sound of water is helping
you to go more and more deeply
relaxed.
You may feel your muscles
loosening more and more,
relaxing with the beautiful
flowing sound of water.
Out of curiosity, you decide to
follow the sound of the water,
and you feel excited about
where it's leading you,
knowing deep within
yourself, you're
going to a very special
place, a place where
you're going to create
some positive, wonderful,
long-lasting changes.
As you walk slowly
towards the water,
you can hear the sound of
birds singing in the trees.
You feel totally at ease.
As you finally
reach the lake, you
realize it's the most beautiful
vision you've ever seen,
and you're in awe of the
beauty that surrounds you.
The vast lake is filled
with a variety of colors,
rich colors of blues,
turquoise, and light greens,
and it fills your mind and
body with a wave of relaxation.
You may be becoming more relaxed
with each and every breath
you take, feeling more calm,
more peaceful, and more
relaxed than ever before.
Your mind may be
drifting in and out,
just letting go deeper
and deeper still.
You may feel as though your
mind is flowing gently,
flowing gently like the
lake in your imagination.
You look into the distance,
and you can see a wooden bridge
leading over the lake.
You walk towards the bridge,
feeling more and more
deeply relaxed.
As you reach the
bridge, you can see
there are 10 steps leading over
to the other side of the lake.
You slowly start
walking over the bridge,
counting the steps in your mind.
10, 9, deeper and
deeper still, 8, 7,
all the way down to
relaxation now, 6, 5, and 4,
drifting off peacefully and
easily, 3, 2, all the way down,
deep and relaxed, and 1.
You see a comfortable
padded chair,
and you take a seat,
ready to embrace
the changes to come in your
deep state of relaxation now.
You are now deeply relaxed
and ready to accept
the suggestions I give you.
And for a while now, you've
been biting your nails,
and this is something
you would like to stop.
As I'm sure you are
aware, some people
start biting their nails when
they are anxious or stressed.
And after a while,
they don't even
realize they're doing it,
until other people comment
about your habit.
And of course, just
like any other habit,
the more you bite your nails,
the harder it can be to stop.
And this is because nail-biting
has now become an unconscious
response, something you
might do when you're not
even stressed or anxious.
But you're beginning
to realize how
unsightly chewed nails look.
Perhaps you hide your
hands in embarrassment
when attention is brought
to that region of your body.
And it's because you want
to look good and feel good
and would like to have lovely,
smooth, rounded nails that you
have decided to use
hypnosis to help
you to overcome that old habit
of yours once and for all.
And because nail-biting is an
automated pattern of behavior,
hypnotherapy is the
ideal method for you
to quit the habit, because
your subconscious mind governs
your automatic nervous
system, the part of you
that regulates your
breathing, your heartbeat,
the flow of your blood, and
the movement of your muscles.
And this includes the muscles
of your shoulders and arms
that lift up your hands and
fingers and nails to mouth.
But very soon, you're going
to forget that response,
and you know how easy it
can be to forget something.
Perhaps you had the experience
of going to another room
to collect something.
And as soon as you went out of
the door, the object you were
going to bring back flies
straight out of your mind,
or maybe even at
this moment, you
forgot about the position
of your left foot,
until I just brought
it to your attention.
And sometimes we can be in
the middle of doing something
when we're suddenly distracted,
and then whatever we're doing
is totally forgotten.
And when this
happens, we may need
to retrace our steps
in order to remember.
So from now on, instead
of putting your fingers
to your mouth, you're going
to find a new way to forget.
You will simply
do something else.
And this other activity
is going to make
it so easy for you to forget
about biting your nails.
And the longer you go
without biting your nails,
the more ridiculous that old
habit of yours seems to be.
From this day forward, you
have had enough of nail biting.
It's something that you
used to do but no longer do.
When you see other people
biting their nails,
it seems more and more
like a silly thing to do.
It's so easy to forget that this
is something you used to do.
You no longer need that
old, unwanted response,
because from now
on, you are becoming
calmer and more relaxed and
far more confident, too.
And you find yourself practicing
regular deep breathing
techniques instead
of biting your nails,
breathing in slowly and
evenly, holding your breath
with a mental count of four and
exhaling a long, slow breath.
And you practice your
breathing whenever it's
appropriate for you to do so.
And as you do breathing, you're
reminded of how much calmer
and how much more relaxed
and happier you now are.
You feel an inner sense of
calmness, peace, harmony,
and tranquility,
and these feelings
are going to remain with you.
And if nail-biting is brought to
your attention by someone else,
you immediately feel
a deep sense of pride
in your achievements, and your
lovely smooth, rounded nails
make you look and feel great.
As you're enjoying these
wonderful feelings of calmness
and relaxation, I
wonder if you would also
like to learn a very
special technique
to help you to create this
wonderful feeling whenever
you want to.
So gently lift your hand,
your fingers up to your cheek,
ever so slowly lifting,
floating, lifting your hand up
to your cheek.
And as it touches
your cheek, you
notice a pleasant feeling
spreading over you.
A wave of complete
peace and relaxation
washes over your
body and your mind,
relaxing you, calming you,
and making you feel wonderful.
You immediately experience a
very calm and pleasant feeling
as you notice the feel
of the skin on your cheek
beneath your fingertips.
Soft to the touch, smooth and
comfortable, such a lovely,
comfortable, and
comforting feeling,
and whenever you want
to feel that way again,
your inner mind will direct
your hand and your fingers
to touch your cheek,
and you will, again,
experience that curiously
calming sensation.
And in the past, when you
used to bite your nails,
you found that
chewing those nails
seemed to help with the
tension inside of you.
And all of that is changing now.
Your body knows how to relax.
Instead of chewing those nails,
if you feel tension or need
comfort, or for
any other reason,
you simply allow the
hand to float up,
past your mouth and teeth
to touch your cheek.
And as your hands and
fingers touch your cheek,
you feel, once again,
this wonderful, calm,
and curious feeling.
You immediately
experience a sensation
of calm, a sensation
of curiosity.
How does your cheek feel?
Touching your cheek is your
cue to experience once more
that lovely, calming,
relaxing feeling.
And you feel wonderful.
You feel calm and relaxed.
And you feel proud of
yourself as those nails
start to grow and take shape.
No more ragged edges.
They're beginning to feel
so smooth and comfortable,
looking and feeling so good.
You're becoming
proud of your hands
and how good your nails
look now and also enjoying
the wonderful, calm, relaxing
feelings and confidence
that comes from knowing
that you are now in control.
You've had enough
of nail biting.
You see it as something
you used to do in the past,
but you no longer
need to do that,
and this makes you feel great.
And these suggestions are firmly
embedded in your subconscious
mind, and they grow stronger
and stronger day by day.
They grow stronger by the
day and stronger by the hour,
stronger by the minute.
In a moment, I'm going to
count the numbers from 1 to 5,
and at the count of five,
you'll be wide awake,
refreshed and alert and ready
to allow the suggestions to work
for you.
One, two, three,
coming slowly back,
four, eyelids beginning
to flutter, and five,
eyes open, wide awake, mind and
body returning to normality.